docs/ref/emitter.rst, before:

#############################
Header: ``amongoc/emitter.h``
#############################

.. header-file:: amongoc/emitter.h

.. struct:: amongoc_emitter

  `amongoc_emitter` is the core of the |amongoc| asynchronous design.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

  .. type:: T

    (Exposition-only for |attr.type|) The result type of the emitter.

  .. type:: UserData

    (Exposition-only for |attr.type|) The type contained within `userdata`.

  .. seealso:: :doc:`/explain/async-model`

  When an `amongoc_emitter` return value or parameter is annotated with
  |attr.type|, the attribute specifies the type that will be stored in the
  `amongoc_box` result value if the emitter resolves successfully.

  .. member:: amongoc_box [[type(UserData)]] userdata

    Arbitrary data associated with the emitter

  .. member:: amongoc_emitter_vtable const* vtable

    Virtual method table for the emitter.

  .. function:: as_unique() &&

    Move the emitter into an `amongoc::unique_emitter` to be managed automatically

.. struct:: amongoc_emitter_vtable

  Virtual method table to be used with an `amongoc_emitter`. The functions
  described below are function pointers that should be provided by the user.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

  .. function:: amongoc_operation connect(amongoc_box [[transfer, type(UserData)]] userdata, amongoc_handler [[transfer, type(T)]] handler)

    Backing implementation for `amongoc_emitter_connect_handler`. Connects an
    `amongoc_emitter` to the handler `handler`.

    :param userdata: The `amongoc_emitter::userdata` value.
    :param handler: |attr.type| The `amongoc_handler` for the operation.

    :return: A new `amongoc_operation` object.

    .. note::

      It is important that the implementation of `connect` call not initiate any
      asynchronous operations: that must be deferred until the invocation of
      `amongoc_start` on the returned operation object.

      If the returned operation object is destroyed with
      `amongoc_operation_destroy` without ever being started with
      `amongoc_start`, then there must be no observable effect.


.. function:: amongoc_operation amongoc_emitter_connect_handler(amongoc_emitter [[transfer, type(T)]] em, amongoc_handler [[transfer, type(T)]] hnd)

  Connect an emitter with a handler. Calls `amongoc_emitter_vtable::connect`.

  :C++ API: `amongoc::unique_emitter::connect`
  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

  .. hint::

    This is a very low-level API. In general, users should be composing emitters
    using high-level APIs such as those in the :header-file:`amongoc/async.h`
    header.

.. function:: void amongoc_emitter_discard(amongoc_emitter [[transfer]] em)

  Discard an unused emitter object without connecting it to anything. The
  associated asynchronous operation will never be launched, but associated
  prepared data will be freed.

  :C++ API: Use `amongoc::unique_emitter`
  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

.. namespace:: amongoc
.. rubric:: Namespace ``amongoc``
.. class:: unique_emitter

  Provides move-only ownership semantics around an `amongoc_emitter`, preventing
  programmer error and ensuring destruction if the emitter is discarded.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

  .. function:: unique_emitter() = default

    Default-construct to a null emitter

  .. function:: unique_emitter(amongoc_emitter&&)

    Take ownership of the given C emitter object.

  .. function::
    unique_emitter(unique_emitter&&)
    unique_emitter& operator=(unique_emitter&&)

    The :class:`unique_emitter` is a move-only type.

  .. function:: amongoc_emitter release() &&

    Relinquish ownership of the wrapped C emitter and return it to the caller.
    This function is used to interface with C APIs that want to |attr.transfer|
    an `amongoc_emitter`.

  .. function:: template <typename F> static unique_emitter from_connector(F&& fn)

    Create an emitter from a connector function object.

    :param fn: The object must support a call signature of
      :expr:`unique_operation(unique_handler)`. That is: It must be callable
      with a `unique_handler` argument and return a new `unique_operation`
      object representing the composed operation.
    :return: A new emitter for the connected operation.

  .. function::
    template <typename F> \
    unique_operation connect(F&& fn) &&
    unique_operation connect(unique_handler&& [[type(T)]] hnd) &&

    :C API: `amongoc_emitter_connect_handler`

    :param fn:
      An invocable object that supports the signature :expr:`void(amongoc_status, unique_box)`.
      The object `fn` will automatically be wrapped using `unique_handler::from` for the
      call. **NOTE**: For this overload, the resulting handler will not have cancellation support.
    :param hnd: A handler for the final operation.


.. header-file:: amongoc/emitter_result.h

  Contains the definition of `emitter_result`

.. class:: emitter_result

  **(C++)** Encapsulates the pair of status+value when an emitter completes.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter_result.h`

  .. function::
    emitter_result()  [[1]]
    explicit emitter_result(amongoc_status s)  [[2]]
    explicit emitter_result(amongoc_status s, unique_box&& v)  [[3]]

    Initialize the attrributes of the `emitter_result`

    .. rubric:: Overloads

    1. Initializes `status` with `amongoc_okay` and `value` with `amongoc_nil`.
    2. Initializes `status` with `s` and `value` with `amongoc_nil`.
    3. Initializes `status` with `s` and `value` with `v`

  .. member::
    amongoc_status status
    unique_box value

    The result status and result value for an emitter.

.. namespace:: 0

Commit message:

Refactor allocator handling, add box compression.
This changeset has handlers carrying allocators, allowing them to
customize memory allocation of some operation state. This seals
some remaining holes in the allocator customization system.

This changeset also introduces "box compression", allowing internal
APIs to specialize their behavior based on the size of the data stored
within a type-erased box. This allows us to minimize the repeated
allocation of small objects, and allows us to pack multiple boxes into
smaller spaces.

docs/ref/emitter.rst, after:

#############################
Header: ``amongoc/emitter.h``
#############################

.. header-file:: amongoc/emitter.h

.. struct:: amongoc_emitter

  `amongoc_emitter` is the core of the |amongoc| asynchronous design.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

  .. type:: T

    (Exposition-only for |attr.type|) The result type of the emitter.

  .. type:: UserData

    (Exposition-only for |attr.type|) The type contained within `userdata`.

  .. seealso:: :doc:`/explain/async-model`

  When an `amongoc_emitter` return value or parameter is annotated with
  |attr.type|, the attribute specifies the type that will be stored in the
  `amongoc_box` result value if the emitter resolves successfully.

  .. member:: amongoc_box [[type(UserData)]] userdata

    Arbitrary data associated with the emitter

  .. member:: amongoc_emitter_vtable const* vtable

    Virtual method table for the emitter.

  .. function:: as_unique() &&

    Move the emitter into an `amongoc::unique_emitter` to be managed automatically

.. struct:: amongoc_emitter_vtable

  Virtual method table to be used with an `amongoc_emitter`. The functions
  described below are function pointers that should be provided by the user.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

  .. function:: amongoc_operation connect(amongoc_box [[transfer, type(UserData)]] userdata, amongoc_handler [[transfer, type(T)]] handler)

    Backing implementation for `amongoc_emitter_connect_handler`. Connects an
    `amongoc_emitter` to the handler `handler`.

    :param userdata: The `amongoc_emitter::userdata` value.
    :param handler: |attr.type| The `amongoc_handler` for the operation.

    :return: A new `amongoc_operation` object.

    .. note::

      It is important that the implementation of `connect` call not initiate any
      asynchronous operations: that must be deferred until the invocation of
      `amongoc_start` on the returned operation object.

      If the returned operation object is destroyed with
      `amongoc_operation_destroy` without ever being started with
      `amongoc_start`, then there must be no observable effect.


.. function:: amongoc_operation amongoc_emitter_connect_handler(amongoc_emitter [[transfer, type(T)]] em, amongoc_handler [[transfer, type(T)]] hnd)

  Connect an emitter with a handler. Calls `amongoc_emitter_vtable::connect`.

  :C++ API: `amongoc::unique_emitter::connect`
  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

  .. hint::

    This is a very low-level API. In general, users should be composing emitters
    using high-level APIs such as those in the :header-file:`amongoc/async.h`
    header.

.. function:: void amongoc_emitter_discard(amongoc_emitter [[transfer]] em)

  Discard an unused emitter object without connecting it to anything. The
  associated asynchronous operation will never be launched, but associated
  prepared data will be freed.

  :C++ API: Use `amongoc::unique_emitter`
  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

.. namespace:: amongoc
.. rubric:: Namespace ``amongoc``
.. class:: unique_emitter

  Provides move-only ownership semantics around an `amongoc_emitter`, preventing
  programmer error and ensuring destruction if the emitter is discarded.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter.h`

  .. function:: unique_emitter(amongoc_emitter&&)

    Take ownership of the given C emitter object.

  .. function::
    unique_emitter(unique_emitter&&)
    unique_emitter& operator=(unique_emitter&&)

    The :class:`unique_emitter` is a move-only type.

  .. function:: amongoc_emitter release() &&

    Relinquish ownership of the wrapped C emitter and return it to the caller.
    This function is used to interface with C APIs that want to |attr.transfer|
    an `amongoc_emitter`.

  .. function:: template <typename F> static unique_emitter from_connector(F&& fn)

    Create an emitter from a connector function object.

    :param fn: The object must support a call signature of
      :expr:`unique_operation(unique_handler)`. That is: It must be callable
      with a `unique_handler` argument and return a new `unique_operation`
      object representing the composed operation.
    :return: A new emitter for the connected operation.

  .. function::
    unique_operation connect(unique_handler&& [[type(T)]] hnd) &&

    :C API: `amongoc_emitter_connect_handler`

  .. function::
    template <typename F> \
    unique_operation bind_allocator_connect(allocator<> a, F&& fn) &&

    Creates an invocable object with `unique_handler::from` and calls `connect`
    with that new handler.

    :param a: The allocator to be bound with the new handler. See: :ref:`handler.allocator`
    :param fn: The function that impelments the handler callback. Must accept
      an `emitter_result` argument.


.. header-file:: amongoc/emitter_result.h

  Contains the definition of `emitter_result`

.. class:: emitter_result

  **(C++)** Encapsulates the pair of status+value when an emitter completes.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/emitter_result.h`

  .. function::
    emitter_result()  [[1]]
    explicit emitter_result(amongoc_status s)  [[2]]
    explicit emitter_result(amongoc_status s, unique_box&& v)  [[3]]

    Initialize the attrributes of the `emitter_result`

    .. rubric:: Overloads

    1. Initializes `status` with `amongoc_okay` and `value` with `amongoc_nil`.
    2. Initializes `status` with `s` and `value` with `amongoc_nil`.
    3. Initializes `status` with `s` and `value` with `v`

  .. member::
    amongoc_status status
    unique_box value

    The result status and result value for an emitter.

.. namespace:: 0
