docs/ref/operation.rst, before:

###############################
Header: ``amongoc/operation.h``
###############################

.. header-file:: amongoc/operation.h

  Operation state utilities.

.. struct:: amongoc_operation

  Represents a composed operation ready to be launched. This is created by connecting
  an `amongoc_emitter` to an `amongoc_handler`.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/operation.h`

  .. member:: amongoc_start_callback start_callback

    The start callback for the operation. Do not call this directly. Prefer to
    use `amongoc_start` when launching an operation.

  .. member:: amongoc_box userdata

    Arbitrary data associated with the operation

  .. function:: as_unique() &&

    Move the operation into a new `amongoc::unique_operation` object.

.. type:: amongoc_start_callback = void(*)(amongoc_view userdata)

  The operation-launching callback for the operation. The ``userdata`` parameter
  corresponds to the `amongoc_operation::userdata` value.

.. function:: void amongoc_start(amongoc_operation* op)

  Launch the asynchronous operation defined by the given operation object.

.. function:: void amongoc_operation_destroy(amongoc_operation [[transfer]] op)

  Destroy an asynchronous operation object.

  .. note::

    It is very important that the associated operation is *NOT* in-progress!

.. namespace:: amongoc

.. class:: unique_operation

  Provides move-only ownership semantics around an `amongoc_operation`,
  preventing programmer error and ensuring destruction when the operation leaves
  scope.

  .. function:: unique_operation(amongoc_operation&&)

    Take ownership of the given `amongoc_operation` object.

  .. function:: ~unique_operation()

    Calls `amongoc_operation_destroy` on the operation.

  .. function:: template <typename F> unique_operation from_starter(F fn)

    Create an operation object based on a starter function `fn`. The function
    object must be invocable with no arguments, and will be called when the
    `start`/`amongoc_start` function is called on the operation.

  .. function:: void start()

    :C API: `amongoc_start`

  .. function:: amongoc_operation [[transfer]] release()

    Relinquish ownership of the wrapped operation and return it to the caller.
    This function is used to interface with C APIs that want to |attr.transfer|
    an `amongoc_operation`.

.. namespace:: 0

Commit message:

Small refactor to handle allocation failure:
- amongoc_operation is larger now, since it would
  otherwise always require dynamic storage for its
  operation state and handler object. This change
  reduces the frequency that an operation requires
  dynamic storage, and allows us to define
  amongoc_alloc_failure() to never fail.
- unique_operation::from_starter() is refactored to
  recognize the handler argument directly, and passes
  the operation state through as a function parameter.
- Allow coroutines to handle allocation failure correctly.
- amongoc_alloc_failure() returns an emitter that immediately
  resolves with ENOMEM.
- More noexcept specifies throughout.

docs/ref/operation.rst, after:

###############################
Header: ``amongoc/operation.h``
###############################

.. header-file:: amongoc/operation.h

  Operation state utilities.

.. struct:: amongoc_operation

  Represents a composed operation ready to be launched. This is created by connecting
  an `amongoc_emitter` to an `amongoc_handler`.

  :header: :header-file:`amongoc/operation.h`

  .. member:: amongoc_box userdata

    Arbitrary data associated with the operation.

  .. member:: amongoc_handler handler

    Storage for the handler associated with the operation.

  .. member:: amongoc_start_callback start_callback

    The start callback for the operation. Do not call this directly. Prefer to
    use `amongoc_start` when launching an operation.

  .. function:: as_unique() &&

    Move the operation into a new `amongoc::unique_operation` object.

.. type:: amongoc_start_callback = void(*)(amongoc_operation* self)

  The operation-launching callback for the operation.

.. function:: void amongoc_start(amongoc_operation* op)

  Launch the asynchronous operation defined by the given operation object.

.. function:: void amongoc_operation_destroy(amongoc_operation [[transfer]] op)

  Destroy an asynchronous operation object.

  .. note::

    It is very important that the associated operation is *NOT* in-progress!

.. namespace:: amongoc

.. class:: unique_operation

  Provides move-only ownership semantics around an `amongoc_operation`,
  preventing programmer error and ensuring destruction when the operation leaves
  scope.

  .. function:: unique_operation(amongoc_operation&&)

    Take ownership of the given `amongoc_operation` object.

  .. function:: ~unique_operation()

    Calls `amongoc_operation_destroy` on the operation.

  .. function:: template <typename F> unique_operation from_starter(cxx_allocator<> a, unique_handler&& h, F fn)

    Create an operation object based on a starter function `fn` with an
    associated handler `hnd`. The function object must be invocable with a
    single :expr:`amongoc_operation&` argument, and will be called when the
    `start`/`amongoc_start` function is called on the operation. The given
    handler `hnd` will be attached to the returned operation in the
    `amongoc_operation::handler` field.

  .. function:: void start()

    :C API: `amongoc_start`

  .. function:: amongoc_operation [[transfer]] release()

    Relinquish ownership of the wrapped operation and return it to the caller.
    This function is used to interface with C APIs that want to |attr.transfer|
    an `amongoc_operation`.

.. namespace:: 0
